# WebApp_MTBA_Finder
# WebApp_MTBA_Helper
This project finds a Massachusetts Boston Transportation Authority stop closest to a person’s location and determines whether or not it is wheelchair accessible. A user enters their address or name of their town to find the nearest bus stop to their location. HTML is used to present data submission to the user. The web page uses Flask/Django to connect the front end to the back end of the web application. These frameworks connect to the backend language, Python, to submit a request to MapQuest to garner the longitude and latitude of the location. In order to submit this request, an API is used. The API gives access to JSON formatted documents that allow the programmer to use a dictionary method to find the location of the nearest stop. From there, the longitude and latitude are transmitted to the MBTA website and entered in as data points to another API address to find the closest stop to the coordinates. When this is found, the program returns the bus stop to the user on rendered page of the web application.

The anticipated duration of the project was to take 8-9 days. 14 days were needed to give a good quality delivery on the project. Due to this, the quality of the project is less than it could have been had it been created using the full amount of allocated time that was given. 

The installation of Flask was time consuming, and hindered progress towards building the web application. The installation took three days. The typical installation did not work on the platform for which this web application was being coded. Due to this, there was a need to reference many tutorials to fully install Flask onto the computer.

Along with issues on the quality of the delivery of the project, one of the main issues was the lack of familiarity with Python and its libraries, particularly as they pertain to web development. Because of this lack of familiarity, the research that had to be done to learn about these frameworks took a lot of time. Resources were jargony and difficult to implement in small projects. Flask and Django were used to connect the front end to the back end of the web application. Translating the content learned from these resources to intersect with the syntax of both Python and HTML contributed to difficulty when trying to build as well as apply knowledge using the Python language. 

Due to the constrained schedule, unit tests ended up very weak. There were no docstrings to test the validity of the functions in the code. Instead, simple print statements were used as markers to find where elements of the code did not work.  This is inherently not good, as it affects the overall readability and expectations that come from readers as they review the code document. One of the most important things learned during this project is to scope out and structure docstring tests before tackling individual functions.

A few things that proved to be helpful during the time spent building this project is that browser extensions to read JSON are extremely effective. The readability of the JSON format increases through the use of these extensions and help the production of the code document to go by a lot faster because of the extensions. It allowed users to scrape and skim JSON documents with more effectiveness and efficiency. The knowledge that there were JSON extensions came later during this project, and had this realization come earlier, would have accelerated the delivery of the project.

Some next steps to take with this project are to expand the docstrings that test for usability of the code and to expand the transporation authoirty to which one has access to APIs in order to find a bus stop for anyone anywhere in the country. 


